[Music]
we welcome simon Sinek to the stage
Simon welcome thanks I thought what I do
is share with you a little bit about
what I'm working on now I'm actually
writing a new book that's completely
fascinated me I've become completely
engrossed with this subject it's all
based on game theory in game theory
there are two types of games there are
finite games and there are infinite
games a finite game is defined as known
players fixed rules and an agreed upon
objective like football we all agree
what the rules are at the end of the
game whoever has more points as the
winner and we all go home then you have
an infinite game an infinite game is
defined as known and unknown players the
rules are changeable and the objective
is to perpetuate the game to keep the
game in play when you pit a finite
player versus a finite player the system
is stable football is stable when you
pit an infinite player versus an
infinite player the system is also
stable like the Cold War was stable
because there cannot be a winner or a
loser the goal is to just keep the game
and play and because there are no
winners or losers in an infinite contest
what happens as players drop out of the
game when they run out of the will or
the resources to play and other players
will replace them but the game keeps
going with or without them problems
emerge when you pit a finite player
versus an infinite player because a
finite player is playing to win and an
infinite player is playing to keep
playing so this is what happened with
the United States and Vietnam then
Americans were trying to beat the Viet
Cong and the North Vietnamese would
fight for as long as is necessary and
America found itself necessarily in
quagmire this is the Soviet Union in
Afghanistan where the Soviets are trying
to win and the Mujahideen were fighting
for their lives and necessarily the
Soviet Union find themselves in quagmire
until they ran out of the will or the
resources to play and
they left the game is what happens so if
you think about the game of business the
game of business is an infinite contest
there's no such thing as winning the
game of business right it doesn't exist
the game of business has existed longer
than every single company that exists on
the planet today and it will outlast
every single company that exists on the
planet today but if you listen to the
language that most companies use they
don't know the game they're playing they
talk about beating their competition
they talk about being number one
based on what agreed-upon metrics
profits revenue market share number of
employees square footage over what
agreed-upon time frame a quarter a year
three years five years ten years I
didn't agree to your standards so how
can you declare yourself the winner
how can you declare yourself number one
in other words companies can say
whatever they wanted we haven't agreed
to the standards every single bankruptcy
is a company that is run out of the will
or the resources to play and they drop
out of the game that doesn't mean the
game ends another company will replace
them almost every merger and acquisition
are when companies declare that we no
longer have the will or the resources to
continue to play by ourselves we have to
merge our resources within other
companies so that we can stay in the
game in other words most companies don't
last because they are playing the wrong
game the infinite players are the ones
that frustrate their competitors so I
spoke at an education summit for
Microsoft I also spoke at an education
summit for Apple at the Microsoft summit
I would say that 80% of the executives
spent the vast majority of their
presentations talking about how to beat
Apple at the Apple summit a hundred
percent of the executives spent a
hundred percent of their presentations
talking about how to help teachers teach
and how to help students learn one was
obsessed with their vision one was
obsessed with where they were going
the other one was obsessed with beating
their competition guesses guess which
one is fresh
in this competition because the finite
player is playing against its
competitors and the infinite player is
playing against themselves the infinite
player wakes up every single day and
says how do we be better this week than
we were last week how do we perform
better
next month than we did this month it's a
it's a game of constant improvement it
is totally fine to study our competition
for tactical reasons but the number of
companies that study their competition
for strategic reasons is scary which
means they react strategically to their
competition and will change entire
business models on a basically on a whim
which means the company has no stability
is going all over the place in other
words you're wasting time and resources
and you're frustrating the people on the
inside because they don't know where
they're going it's a constant game of
reaction a long time ago in a previous
life I used to work at an ad agency and
I was a junior kid and I worked in the
competitive analysis department and I
worked on one of the telco telephone
company clients that we had and my job
was to report to the client on what the
competition was doing now the number of
other telephone companies that existed
in America that day was quite a long
list and we the client couldn't afford
to study them all so we studied a
handful of them so think about that for
a second they're studying their
competition but they're only studying
some of their competition well what
about all the others not to mention the
fact that in the infinite game it's
usually the competitors we don't know
about that take us down not the ones we
do know about myspace had no idea that
Facebook even existed until it
completely destroyed their company
because they were so focused on the ones
they do new it did know about it and I
find that fascinating because remember
in the infinite game we don't always
know who all the competitors are so at
the end of my talk at Microsoft they
gave me a gift they gave me the new Zune
when it was a thing Zune was the
competitors of the iPod and this thing
was gorgeous an absolutely spectacular
piece of technology beautifully designed
the user interface was
beautiful it was intuitive and simple
there's a really remarkable piece of
technology it didn't work with iTunes
which means I couldn't use it which is a
different problem but the technology
itself was really quite sophisticated
and quite stunning so after I got done
with my talk at Apple I'm in the back of
a taxi with a very senior Apple
executive sort of employee number twelve
kind of guy and I decided decided to
stir the pot and I turned him I said you
know Microsoft gave me their new Zune I
said to him and it is so much better
than your iPod touch to which he
responded I have no doubt conversation
over because the infinite player
understands that sometimes your head and
sometimes your behind and sometimes your
product is better and sometimes it's not
the goal is not to win every battle the
goal is to outlast the competition you
let the competitor compete against
itself and drive itself down to zero
while you're out there improving your
systems constantly this is what it means
to play the infinite game and I've
become totally fascinated by this
because the companies that frustrate
their competitors the ones that seemed
unbeatable the ones that everybody
targets but seems unable to reach
accidentally are playing the infinite
game so in the US Costco frustrates
Walmart but if you listen to Jim Senegal
the founder of Costco he talks about
building a business for the next 50 or
100 years not for the next one year or
one quarter for Wall Street he talks
about the need to take care of his
employees first his customers second his
shareholders third because that's the
way he will build a long-lasting company
and it is true when we prioritize the
needs of the shareholders which by the
way is the equivalent of a coach
prioritizing the needs the sorry
prioritizing the once of the fans over
the needs of the players
that's what shareholder supremacy is
that doesn't build a strong stable team
you may win a game you may even win a
tournament but you won't build a team
that can win year after year
after year after year Southwest Airlines
frustrates all the other airlines in
America because they're competing
against themselves they put their
employee number one they put their
customer number two they put their
shareholder number three that is the
order in which you play the infinite
game because that is the order in which
you build stability but companies that
have it in the reverse order go out of
business or are merged or acquired
because they run out of the will or the
resources to compete by themselves
I'm totally fascinated by this the vast
vast vast majority of businesses don't
know the game that they're playing don't
know the game that they're in which
means we're all playing by the wrong
rules this has completely changed the
way we do business and our company where
we've adjusted and are adjusting and
learning to adjust our systems for a
more infinite scenario so for example
think about how we incentivize behavior
right usually what we do is we give
someone an arbitrary target to hit
usually in an arbitrary time frame it's
usually a year and the reason it's a
year's because that's when we pay taxes
and we pay taxes every 18 months those
would be our arbitrary dates right but
there's nothing magical about 12 months
it's arbitrary right so we give somebody
an arbitrary target sales revenues
whatever it is on an arbitrary date see
in a year from now and if they hit that
target
we bonus them and say good job and if
they miss that target we say better luck
next time right but if we're playing the
infinite game this is what we started
doing we become more preoccupied with
the trend over the absolute target that
they hit so for example what if
somebody's building really good solid
systems that are showing really good
incremental growth really stable good
solid incremental growth but by the time
we hit twelve months they're short they
miss the target you're damn right I'm
gonna bonus that person because what
they're doing is they're building the
right systems that I can see will hit
the target I can see it will hit the
target 15 months from now in other words
we got the date wrong it's the date that
should adjust not the other way around
versus somebody who hits the target but
if I go back and look at what they did
and it looks like their performance is
this and they're stabbing people in the
back and there
you know beg borrowing and stealing
dropping the price and doing whatever it
takes to make the sale because I got to
hit the target got to hit the target and
on the right day on the right time we
bonus them which is rewarding them for
building an unstable company the trend
matters sometimes it hits the date
sometimes it doesn't the dates are there
to help guide us to help set a pace and
a tempo but if you're running a marathon
and you want to run a four hour marathon
and at your half marathon you've got an
hour and 57 minutes you're happy but if
you're two hours and 13 minutes you
don't quit you just got the pace wrong
and we don't do this in business we put
the date instead of the system's I don't
understand that we were adjusting even
the way we talk about money has changed
for us so if you look at our P&L we
actually do not have a line on our P&L
that says profit doesn't exist we have a
line that says freedom right because
money buys us freedom the freedom to say
no to clients we don't to work with the
freedom to say yes to clients we do want
to work with we don't have any money it
gives us the freedom to take a holiday
to pay our staff better to give it away
to support charities whatever we want to
do and you're damn right I want more
freedom next month than I do this month
then I have this month yeah damn right
and that's what money affords us but
it's all contextualized and what the
amazing thing is it does is it gels the
company together because now our whole
team is working towards the opportunity
to give rather than the opportunity to
reward themselves our team because we're
much more interested in the systems and
the trend they find we find that they
were much better helping each other
hit goals and targets because absolutes
no longer get you rewards it's the
underlying systems which is super stable
and for entrepreneurs we all live with
the fear or at least the acknowledgement
that our companies are very much built
on us if you if you're the founder it's
my personality it's me my idea you know
those kinds of things and if I were to
get hit by a bus the likelihood of the
company closing is very very high
that's called finally the question is
have you built a company that could
survive you getting hit by a bus that
the employees believe in the cause and
the vision so much that the systems are
so stable you've built redundancy into
the system that anybody can do somebody
else's job you there's at least one
person who can do somebody else's job
that the company can sale sustain and
the employees would want to keep the
business going without you because they
believe that the cause is big enough
that they would continue without you I
can say with absolute certainty that if
anything were to happen to me my entire
team would continue working they would
continue working to see this vision that
we have come to life and figure out new
ways without me I play one piece in the
machine that's it just one it might be
the most public one but it's only one
piece and I'm like I said I've become
absolutely fascinated by how can we
compete in a game if we don't even know
what game we're in and then we drop out
and somebody else replaces us and
nobody's sorry or and nobody nobody
calls you a loser you haven't lost
anything but you're not a winner if you
stay in the game either this is
wonderful so the question is how do you
do this
what is it require so as is my nature I
have to write things on boards that's a
joke the so the infinite game exists up
here finite game exists down here all
right the infinite game is will includes
the Y what I call our purpose cause or
belief it's the vision of the company
it's where we're going it's something
that we will never practically reach in
our lifetimes or ever but we will die
trying that's the point right
it's different from a big hairy
audacious goal which for all practical
purposes you could reach it may be
difficult but you could reach it this is
an ideal something it's a vision of the
world so my vision I imagine a world in
which the vast majority of people wake
up every single morning inspired to go
to work feel safe when they're there and
return home fulfilled at the end of the
day that is my vision right we will
never practically get there but we will
die trying the United States was founded
with a document called the Declaration
of Independence in which the document
stated all men are created equal
now the United States
has not achieved that and will never
achieve that but it the country is at
its best when we're trying to achieve
that civil rights women's suffrage gay
rights the you know universal education
universal health care etc etc this is
where our values exist our values are
timeless they do not change every year
whenever we have a strategic off-site
and if they do you have a problem that
happens in big companies every few years
a new CEO comes in and I have a values
thing and they change it and they change
and they change no no your values are
your values right and they're based on
your founders and they exist from
patterns of how you operate when you are
operating at your natural best when your
company is operating at its natural best
when all cylinders are firing when
you're in the flow whatever euphemism
you want to use there is a pattern that
emerges and that pattern are your values
there's a minimum of three there's no
more than five if there's more than five
there's usually redundancy you can find
overlap that you can find lowest common
denominators and they are intractable
these things are inherently intangible
and hard to measure right which is why
they often get brushed aside it's not
that they don't exist they're just hard
to measure then down here you have the
finance what I call the what it's all
the tangible stuff right things like our
interests exist down here because they
are tangible they are inherently easy to
see and easy to measure like products
sold money taken in things like that
right number of clients we have the way
you build an infinite business is you
want to run all decisions first through
your values and your cause and then
through your interests that's how it
works so what does a values based
decision look like so when we send our
our military to battle they will go into
the battlefield and if they wound a bad
guy we will send our medics onto the
battlefield to pull the wounded enemy
off the battlefield we will put them in
our helicopters fly them to our
hospitals put them in
our hospital beds and our adopters will
use our medicine to nurse them back to
health that is not in our interest but
it's kinda who we are that's why there
are scandals when we find out that our
military desecrated dead bodies of our
enemies it's because it violates our
values it makes us upset to know that
our guys did that that is not in keeping
with we say things like who we are
that's what we're talking about right
that's why we do something that is not
in our interest because it reflects our
values in the United States we had a
scandal with torture right now the
reason we tortured offshore and the
reason we tried to keep it a secret is
because we knew it violated our values
if it was well within our values we
would be totally open about it and we
just do it back home we hide things that
we know are uncomfortable and violate
our values in other words you don't have
to think very hard about whether this is
in our values or not we know it's it we
know right now our interests lie down
here so we make decisions every single
day right new client should we take
their business sure they're gonna pay us
a ton of money take it right do ad
campaign what should we say in it hey we
can use clickbait and we can drive we
can drive sales hard over here and we
make all these decisions based on what
numbers are and we're making all
decisions that are in our interest and
those the arguments we make we make
financial debates and we don't consider
this stuff right now in a vacuum any one
of these decisions may be just fine
but the problem is when we pull back and
we look at all of our decisions nobody
knows what we stand for because we are
all over the place that is perceived by
employees and as customers behind by
customers as selfishness in other words
as highly tuned social animals which we
are we will perceive this behavior as
not trustworthy and we may do business
with you that's called transaction but
we'll never give you our loyalty and we
will never trust you employees are the
same way I will work for you as long as
you keep paying me but I will be open to
other opportunities elsewhere and I will
not give you my best and brightest
because I don't know that I'm safe here
because you I see the way you make
decisions now if we make values based
decisions means we run all of our
decisions through here first
occasionally we might make less money
than we could have we made that decision
occasionally we make mistakes but what
starts to happen is all of our decisions
start to look mostly consistent and if
you pull back everyone can say aha I
know what you stand for I know what you
believe they use words like authentic or
they say you have high integrity or you
are of hiked moral fiber or character
all of these words that we use to
describe people used to describe
companies as well I trust you
knowing very little other than I know
how you make decisions so take us for
example right we work with some very
dysfunctional companies but at the core
the executives who bring us in are
trying to do the right thing we have
been offered to go work with companies
who when we talk to them we know they
only want to use our stuff to drive
short-term gains and they offer us a lot
of money to work with them we turn them
down because we have a vision and our
vision is a people based vision and we
want to work with companies that will
transform their cultures that will
produce cultures that people are
inspired to come to work every day and
if I help this company I may help them
drive their numbers but it won't it
helped advance my vision for the
short-term gain of only the money which
I can make somewhere else and if I'm
going to tell my people this is our
vision and they see me make these
decisions and I cannot justify them then
what starts to happen is they start to
think that what I was saying was
and then they stop trusting
everything I said even if I'm saying the
right thing that's the point our friends
are the same way if our friends only
made decisions based on their own
interests do you think you would trust
your friends right if they would never
come to your house you always have to go
to their house because they're lazy
there's no sacrifice there's no giving
everything is in their interest we
wouldn't want to be friends with them in
other words as these highly trained and
highly tuned social animals were
constantly evaluating the words the
actions the behaviors of politicians of
executives of our colleagues of our
friends and of companies to determine
whether we can trust them and work with
them
we will do transactions with them but
this is where loyalty love and this is
where the infinite game lies it's the
only way to build an infinitely built
company it has to be built on values on
the intangibles I spent time with the
United States Marine Corps and they talk
all the time they actually say these
words they say the reason the United
States Marine Corps is what it is the
reason its culture is so strong is
because of the intangibles they
literally talk about the intangibles all
the time which are the emotional bond
the love the vision the standard switch
they hold each other the intangibles we
don't like the intangibles in business
we love the tangibles which is fine then
you have to be satisfied that when you
run out of the will of the resources to
play you move on right there is no
winning the game of business okay love
it Simon thank you very much indeed for
that I love replacing with profit with
freedom and may we all be the freest
people in the okay so I'm Oliver John is
our interviewer for today Amal is the
BBC media editor he reports on Keith's
breakthroughs in the media industry
whether global M&A disruptive
technologies but he doesn't just report
on them he also analyzes them and tells
them what it means for the viewers their
world and the world around them he is
also a massive cricket fan so much so
that he wrote a book once called twirly
men the unlikely history of cricket is
greatest spin bowlers not too much
cooker today I'm all but welcome sir
thank you
thank you very much indeed Simon I'm
gonna see how long it takes me to get
the word intangibles onto the BBC news I
think we have to do it in a week I'm
gonna ask you a couple of questions
about the stuff that you've said so far
and then we going to talk a bit more
broadly about your book start with why
and about leadership that sound good
sure exit so can we just understand you
mentioned Apple the company Apple which
is a good company to analyze giving it
to the wealthiest company in the world
and I just want to try and understand
that in terms of your finite and
infinite axes now Steve Jobs said before
he died that the genius of what he
achieved was that he never had an
original idea because there were music
players before there was an iPod and he
designed an iPod that was three clicks
to your favorite song
there were desktop computers before
there was an Apple Mac but an Apple Mac
was the best to use and there were
smartphones before the iPhone and he
just took brilliant ideas and he made
the mutt much better so with Steve Jobs
playing the finite game because he was
crushing the competition or was he
playing the in finite game because he
just did his own thing so Jobs had a
very clear vision and it was to give the
individual the power to stand up to Big
Brother he was at his heart a rebel he
grew up in Northern California during
the Vietnam War which is the where the
beginning of the anti-establishment
revolution sort of started him yeah and
that was his childhood and so he really
he really stood for the individual
standing up to to the man he had a big
spiritual side who's a yeah yeah and if
you look at the decisions he made he
made decisions like this
he ran decisions through his vision
before he got to the interests right so
there's a very famous story of when he
went to Xerox PARC do you know this one
so jobs they just come up for the
success of the Apple one and the Apple
two it's already a big company he's
already well known it's a it's he's
already the darling of business and
their next big push is gonna be into a
technology they called the Lisa that was
their next computer that they're gonna
launch and just as executives do they
visit each other's companies and jobs in
a few of his colleagues went to visit
Xerox PARC
xerox showed them a new technology that
they had invented called the graphic
user interface right now remember Jobs
believed in the individual standing up
to Big Brother
so the reason they made their computers
beautiful was not arbitrary it's because
if you had them if they were pretty
looking you put them in the living room
if they're ugly you put them in the
basement and you're more likely to use
something that's in the living room than
if it's in the basement
right the reason you make them simple is
because more people can then use them
and so when he saw this thing called a
graphic user interface he thought this
is a better technology
it's a leapfrog to make it easier for
more individuals to access the power of
the personal computer then what we have
in the Lisa so that's an infinite game
because he's thinking about what's right
for the long term rather than what he's
accomplished and as they left direct
part Jub says we have to invest in this
and his colleague said we're crazy
we've invested millions of dollars
millions of man-hours already in Lisa if
we do this if we invest in this we're
gonna blow up our own company to which
jobs replied better we should blow it up
than someone else that decision became
the Mack the the Macintosh that decision
was the Macintosh of which remember
Windows is an interface designed to copy
the Macintosh in other words he
completely changed the way computers
work to the point where now any
individual can easily use a computer and
he always made decisions that way he
made decisions always empowering the
individual so he was asked a question
about the movie industry cinemas and the
decline of cinemas and he replied that
the the cinemas were making the same
mistake the movie industry was making
the same mistake that the music industry
made which is the munich music industry
falsely believed that their customer was
Tower Records and Virgin Megastore and
not the person who actually spent money
on buying the album he says you've
confused your customer with your
distribution channel and it's the same
in television you know the wrong people
have the influence his priority was the
person who spent the money and the
dispersed of power you know when Steve
Jobs died Apple on their homepage put up
a video of him in which he talks about
his favorite quote from
Wayne Gretzky an ice hockey player and
he says it's favorite quote is that he
doesn't go to where the puck is he goes
to where it's going my anticipation is
everything and that time is what you
were saying about the trend is about
planning for the trend what the leaders
of which there are many gathered here
today what the leaders need to do to
understand the trends in their industry
better because it's very easy to say
this is where this business or this is
where this competition is going it's
actually that's what everyone else is
doing so how can you get ahead of a
trend in the way that Steve Jobs was
able to look at where the puck is going
so trend data is very dangerous because
all it does is report a trend that
doesn't report if it's positive or
negative and everyone else has got it
and everybody else has got it so for
example you know kids these days are all
using apps to do everything we should
make more apps but nobody says it's
healthy right in the 1980s you needed to
do cocaine to get through the business
day you know does that that's a trend
that's a trend you know cocaine usage
was up in the 1980s in businesses if you
work in investment bank you know I was i
I was I was definitely not doing that so
the point is the point is it the point
is it's a trend yeah that doesn't mean
we should invest in it right so trend
data is I think the way people rush
towards a trend because they think
that's where the market is going is very
dangerous because it's incredibly
unstable information but you have to as
a leader anticipate where your market is
going and make three or five year plans
and the way you do it is with vision
right so for some reason somebody keeps
telling me that I just mic publisher
said this to me that I'm good at
understanding the zeitgeist and he's
wrong I have no clue about what people
are thinking all I know is where I want
to go that's it as I said before I have
a vision of a world in which the vast
majority of people wake up every single
morning inspired to go to work feel safe
when they're there and return home
fulfilled at the end of the day so I can
make certain guesses and predictions
about things I have to do to get there
you know on what basis do you make your
vision so is your if there's someone
here who works in thought leadership in
consumer brands where does their vision
for where the industry is going come
from is it come from conversations they
have with people here does it come from
an understanding of their business and
their consumers where does that vision
come from because I'm sure lots of the
leaders here today are thinking how can
i
where my business is going three to five
years from now and get ahead of the
competition so you're asking me you're
putting the cart before the horse right
vision is an internal thing right it is
the world that you want to live in right
Jobs was the rebel and he always was
against big business right all the
visionaries that we know have some sort
of personal experience and imagine a
world that is different to the one they
live in now and will use their
businesses to help build that world that
doesn't mean they're the only ones doing
it but what makes them a leader is
they're the one leading towards that
place right so vision has to come from
you if you're the founder of a company
your business is not the only way you do
it what have you quit your business and
start another one it doesn't matter they
should all be contributing towards this
vision and you're not the only one doing
it but if you're the one preaching it
and you're using your company to advance
it that makes you the leader yeah that's
what everybody copies you but it's not
about anticipating the market trend
which is an interest thing you're asking
me it's got to start with values the
interest come second they're definitely
there but they definitely come yeah I
wonder if the implication of what you're
saying is that Steve Jobs I mean who's
we right to focus on him because he was
a visionary was an effective leader but
a bad manager talk let's talk a bit
about the difference between leadership
and management because there is a sort
of theory that people here may subscribe
to that leadership is is that vision
thing you know it's a it's a destination
it's a shining city upon a hill that you
want to get to yeah and management is
the daily sort of charge of trailing up
the mountain yeah is it often the case
in your experience that you do get
people who are bad leaders and good
managers or vice versa
yeah for sure and it's rare that you get
someone who's both an excellent leader
and an excellent manager incredibly rare
I'm a terrible manager what do you like
to work for you have to ask the people
who work for me what do you like to work
for
who'd what I'm asking you what you like
to work for what I like to work oh yeah
what do you like to work for what sort
of manager right I'm very laissez-faire
[Laughter]
sound like a great manager to me you
know but sometimes to a fault leadership
versus management more so so it's it's
like mum and dad it's a partnership you
want that you want the visionary and you
want the
what the leader in you what the managers
not a better or worse thing and we have
a we have a we have a misconceived
notion of hierarchy and most businesses
which is ceo's usually the number one
job and then CFO or CEO is usually the
number two job that's how we think of it
and a lot of CFOs or CEOs are hoping one
day to get the number one job but it's
not one and two it's one in a yeah
they're different skill sets and in
every single c-level job we have
articulated what the job
responsibilities is so you have your
chief operations officer chief operating
officer chief financial officer chief
technology officer what the hell's a
chief executive officer it's the only
job that has no description of it it
should be a CVO a cheap visionary
officer someone who is responsible for
setting the long term vision and
instructing my finance guy my operator
students guy my tech guy to help figure
out all the systems that we need to get
there and all the great visionaries that
we've had ostensibly have been not CEOs
but cvos what you say cuz I think a CEOs
job as far as I understand in my
knowledge of business which is obviously
very limited given I shot a newspaper
CEOs who didn't see that trend coming no
we did Lisa our Andy Mullins who sat in
the front as my boss for some that time
and there's a reason many of you here
did see the trend coming in fact he is a
visionary leader he came up with the
idea to launch a new newspaper called I
he came up with the idea of taking the
Evening Standard free I think the
long-term trend in daily printed news is
it's kaput and so we went online right
and was a smart thing to do but as I
understand exactly CEOs and people that
execute plans our people ultimately have
to make decisions and I spend a huge
amount of my life probably too much
reading political biographies yeah and
it's interesting that if you look at the
names of political biographies as you
read them what they tend to be all about
is the absolute avalanche of decisions
that political leaders have to make yeah
Tony Blair's big stick is that if you're
a political leader you can make a
decision or you can not make a decision
but if you don't make a decision that's
the last consequences Barack Obama would
often say in interviews that what struck
you most when he became president which
is how many decisions he had to make
each day george w bush's
memoirs are called decision points
Hillary Clinton's are called hard
choices the people in this room have to
make decisions all the time probably a
huge number of decisions how does that
graph
two girls there help us make decisions
well that's that's exactly the point
which is what are we running the
decision set through and do we run it
through our values first or we do run it
through our interests first the United
States isn't a bad example because from
a decision-making standpoint foreign
policy has been an absolute disaster for
the past 20 years I don't care what can
a Democrat wear it's been too much
interest based and look what's happened
the world doesn't trust America like it
used to you know and America is not seen
as the holder and keeper of democracy
you know like like it used to in the
past even even the relationship between
this country and the US is weaker than
it's ever been which is not good right
so I would argue that American foreign
policy if we're using foreign policy
hasn't followed that we haven't been
making decisions through that filter but
that is how that is how effective
decisions are made I believe which is
they have to run through values and
cause first its interests because when
you mention that part of your very
engaging talk I was thinking there's a
lot of decisions a lot of businesses
which may not be the businesses that you
would work with but there's a lot of
businesses perhaps some of them are
represented here today we're actually
doing the short-term thing for financial
gain is smart business it's not it is
yeah you do need because you're working
at a public company which reports
quarterly because you need to keep
shareholders on-site maybe you're
worried about losing your job if you
don't hit a certain target in March or
April or May isn't there a fundamental
conflict between the demands of some
businesses which are short-term
interests based and your vision of
business so the argument you're making
is is the argument you're making is a
short-term based company should make
short-term based decisions which means
they'll last for the short term I'm
actually making I'm not actually making
an argument of any kind I just wonder
whether or not actually the reality is
maybe this is why you make the point
that I'm arranging against reality I
think that the systems we have in play
do not support capitalism I think we
have corrupted capitalism which is
capitalism at its best doesn't follow
the rules that we follow today the
concept of Cheryl to supremacy was a
theory proposed by a Harvard professor
in the late 1970s popularized in the 80s
and 90s by basses like Jack Welch right
the concept of using mass layoffs to
balance the books mastered Endon
because we missed our numbers this is
the Mitt Romney school right did not
exist as a standard way of doing
business prior to the 1980s it was a it
was popularized in the 80s and 90s let's
look at the 80s and 90s
these were boom years of relative peace
without the internet right now that
world does not exist we no longer live
in boom times there is no longer
relative peace and the infinite and the
Internet has profoundly changed the way
business operates today in other words
what work then cannot work now GE needed
a three hundred billion dollar bailout
in 2008 because that company was not
built to last what I'm saying is the
systems that we consider normal ways of
doing business
Sharyl to supremacy using master
tendencies and other philosophies and
how we incentivize people how we hire
people etc etc they are outdated and
outmoded and they are a race to zero and
the companies that continue to embrace
those philosophies big or small are
struggling with engagement they're
struggling with innovation they go
through people like nobody's business
and the executives keep getting fired or
quitting right unceremoniously and by
the way their shareholder value is
unstable
remember shareholders are a fickle Bunch
if you do well regardless of what you
stand for they'll invest in you and if
you do badly regardless of what you
stand for they'll abandon you but it's
the P it's the shareholders who believe
what you believe that stick with you
through thick and thin while the others
come and go people don't drop Disney
because Disney had a bad quarter the
fickle do but there's loyal ones too to
those businesses all the companies that
I mentioned Southwest Costco the
companies we love they have a solid base
of really really loyal investors who are
not there because of the whims it's
because Berkshire Hathaway Berkshire
Hathaway does not report quarterly
because there's no legal requirement to
do so it's just a matter of convention
now I don't see people abandoning
Berkshire Hathaway even if they have a
bad year exactly this resonates with the
central argument of your book start with
why and I think it's worth just for a
moment for people who haven't read that
book though they will do time they're
finished today or haven't seen your TED
talk on it could you just briefly
explain the three circles of what how
and why
and how starting with why helps you
build a good business because I think
it's very pertinent to what you're
saying about values driven decisions so
every single organization on the planet
even our own careers always function on
the same three levels what we do how we
do it and why we do it everybody knows
what they do these are the products we
sell the services we offer some know how
they do it these are these are the
things we call our unique selling
propositions or you know our
differentiating value problems the
things that we think make us stand out
from the crowd but very very few people
and very very few organizations can
clearly articulate why they do what they
do and by why I don't mean to make money
that's a result by why I mean what is
your purpose what is your cause what is
your belief why does your company exist
why did you get out of bed this morning
and why should anyone care and what I
learned is that organizations or leaders
that start with by telling you what they
do are less able to inspire people to do
business with them inspire loyalty where
those who start with why whether it's
Steve Jobs or Matt McGann D are able to
command loyalty and are able to innovate
in ways that others cannot and the
reason I say that every company
functions this way is because the model
is not based on some highfalutin
management theory it's based on the
biology of human decision making this is
how the brain works that when you start
with Y talks to the part of brain of the
brain that is responsible for decision
making and feelings like trust and
loyalty but it's not responsible for
language which is why it's hard to put
into words whereas the part of the brain
that controls rational like numbers and
products and benefits and features
doesn't affect decision-making but when
you say start with y I hear as a
suspicious journalist alright well I
start with why should I believe you
so if you say you know Google has this
phrase don't be evil there's a lot of
people out there at the moment
particular people that work in the UK
newspaper industry who feel that they're
being undermined fatally by Google who
say Google say don't be evil that's
their why you know because we want to be
a values driven organization or take
Facebook whenever I speak to Facebook
Facebook say we are a mission driven
company we're about an open and
connected world and a lot of people say
well that's just marked
nonsense so my question to you is even
if someone can give us an account of why
why should we believe him how do we know
it's not just empty marketing jargon and
spin your cynicism is well-placed the
the you should be a journalist the well
I'm inherently cynical and I think
that's sort of said all three not to me
somewhere we've been so deprived I can
still believe that the world is good
which is your right all those pieces
that I talk about why how and what all
have to be there you have to have
balance in all three you have to have
purpose and vision you have to have
values and guiding principles and you
have to have ultimately decisions
product and service and numbers that
that prove it so if you only talk about
the why but you don't actually do it it
is just marketing jargon a hundred
percent agree if all you have is good
product but you don't have any sense of
purpose or cause it's just an unstable
thing and it's a it's a it's a very hard
thing to differentiate based on features
and benefits for any length of time and
it doesn't come out loyalty it just
drives transactions and when you have
all three of those things perfectly in
line then it hums now arguably III hate
the fact that Google describes itself as
do no evil because the human brain has
no capacity for negative and I can prove
it to you you know don't think of an
elephant right can't do it alright so we
can we don't have the capacity for
negative thought we only the capacity
for positive thought which is why you're
supposed to tell your children you're
not supposed to tell your children don't
eat on the couch you're supposed to tell
you doesn't eat at the table right you
tell them what to do so I would prefer
that Google say do good rather than do
no evil
it's a bias but that they're there why
is not do good they're wise to organize
the world's information yeah I mean
Google is a very very well Tibet is a
very very powerful company but are they
powerful because they're a values driven
company or are they better software
engineers who develop better technology
at making search results appear very
quickly and they've built the world's
most effective advertising machine
around it I mean I would I just want to
dig down into your analysis of why
there's a causal link between
values-driven companies
and long-term success so it's Sergey and
Larry are both still there so we won't
really know until they leave yes I was
going to us about us yeah right I mean
we didn't like Sam Walton built an
amazing company and he left he died and
it ran okay after the first CEO took
over from him because that guy worked
right under him by the time you got to
Mike Duke is a horrible horrible company
that people hate working for and hate
working with so the people who work at
Google seem to really like Google you
know they seem to have a more
sophisticated way of hiring you've seen
their want ads they're different they're
different they're trying to hire
devalues have they made mistakes
absolutely are they perfect far from it
are there things that I wish they would
do differently yes but I can't really I
can't really tell you until those
founder leaders just like I was saying
before are gone and let's see what kind
of company they've built I had the
chance to sit down with Richard Branson
and I asked him how should we judge you
when you die
I said how what did you do at virgin
that if I were to look at your company
and say he was a good man like tell me
what what about your culture that you
built that I should judge you by and he
didn't he didn't he didn't even pause he
didn't wait a second he said do not
judge me by anything that I've done at
virgin you judge me by the quality of my
children right which is a very infinite
perspective and I you know although he
didn't although he didn't talk about it
I got the district's distinct sense that
unless his kids are involved in virgin I
don't think he really cares a virgin
survives for a hundred years beyond his
death you know unless his kids are
involved in it I'm just thinking my
son's an absolute nightmare so I've got
work to do
but yeah crying endlessly yeah older kid
he's um he's just turned one okay I
think you're okay you are okay let's
talk briefly the time we've got left
we'll talk it will have this interview
again in 19 years yeah yeah exactly go
well maybe not let's talk briefly the
time we got left about you mentioned the
word entrepreneurs and one of the things
I'm fascinated by Nano have you seen
your talks and read some of your books
you're fascinated by is what it takes to
be an entrepreneur um if you could
describe I know you've talked brought
about sustainable businesses driven by
values but if you could describe what
are the sort of characteristics that
have tended to make affect of
entrepreneurs in your time that'd be
wonderful and yeah there was a very very
famous academic paper in the 1980s
published in England that said that the
qualities of a entrepreneur were a bit
like that of a white-collar criminal it
was someone in a mischievous like
looking for opportunities and sometimes
had a sort of slightly naughty sense so
what are the qualities that you think it
takes to be an entrepreneur is one thing
and the other things how could you
encourage the people here to have the
confidence to take risks there are a lot
of people who grow through a business
they've been there 20 30 years they've
always dreamt of being the CEO and
they've come through the finance
division whatever it might be
and they get to the top and they're at
the top and they were in charge I've got
all this power and actually they become
very cautious because they want to
consolidate that power so how do you
encourage people to have the courage and
confidence to take risks in in order to
make that business continue growing
related questions so that's two the
first one so I think the word
entrepreneur is bandied about too
loosely mmm that not everyone who owns a
small business as an entrepreneur there
are small business owners and they're
entrepreneurs what's no one's pretty and
you can find entrepreneurs in big
companies it doesn't means that they're
small business owners right I think
entrepreneurs are problem solvers I
think rather than risk takers yeah I
think fundamentally there are plenty of
risk takers I think there's a risk taker
of your small business owner right you
went out to start the business but
they're not the same I don't think and
entrepreneurs are those ones who they're
constantly looking to solve problems and
that's where I think they perceive
opportunity or the mischief
you describe I don't think it's I don't
think inherently it's a sense of
mischief they're not trying to stir the
pot for the sake of stirring the pot I
think that they see something and
they're like we can make that better or
we can fill that hole and that's very
much the way the famous entrepreneurs
the Elon Musk's and the Richard
Branson's operate they see gaps they see
things that don't work as it jobs as did
jobs they see things that could be
better or they it I mean Elon Musk was
just interviewed by Chris Anderson at
Ted last week and Chris Anderson and
sort of near the end of the interview
its online go watch it it's really great
Chris Anderson asks Elon Musk's
something to the effect of why why are
you doing all these things like why
didn't just stick with Tesla and be done
with it like why do all the other stuff
and you look at and musk you can see
this look on his face and he takes a
long time to answer he actually doesn't
understand the question he cannot
understand why you wouldn't do that and
he sort of gets emphatic which meal and
musk is pretty amazing because he
doesn't get him Phatak but that's
basically what it is he gets some fatik
and says cuz i want to live in a world
that's better than this two words to
that effect you know where I'm not where
the world that we're living right now
makes us unhappy why don't we want to
live in a world that makes us happy you
know he gets sort of he kind understand
and again
it's vision first and that's why he
doesn't understand why you wouldn't try
and solve problems yeah and how can you
encourage those who the more cautious
amongst those gathered here today how
can you persuade them that sometimes
being cautious is actually the more
risky path and how can people develop
the confidence and the courage to make
yeah make take risks so I don't I've
learned that courage is not some deep
internal fortitude that you don't dig
down deep and find the courage you know
that courage is external courage comes
from the relationships we have with
those around us a partner in business a
personal relationship our team right
that's why what we want to build good
cultures because our team believes in us
which gives us courage to do difficult
things so a trapeze artist a
world-famous trapeze artist would never
try a brand new death-defying act for
the very first time
without a net right now all that courage
they did they're the world's greatest
repeat artist but for the they need at
something external before they do
something very dangerous yeah and it's
the same for the rest of us so when we
have someone who says I believe in you I
got your back even if this doesn't work
out I'm here with you I know so when you
survive so were you in nervous public
speaker before we became a famous public
speaker sure yeah you don't see me know
what I mean you get you get better at
things with practice exactly I got one
final question before we break for a
comfort break talked a lot about vision
it's about inspiring action to change
people to take control of their business
what if they're people some of them
they're looking slightly more vacant
right now who think actually to know
what I've got a big problem which is it
I don't have a vision what if you don't
know your values what if what if you've
just gone through a career to do
basically trying to do what your boss
wanted you to do
make sure you didn't stab anyone in the
back what if you can people find a
vision no I know there's some people who
basically get through life without
vision and some who do because I just
worry that it's a bit easy to talk about
yeah inspiring change yes big vision
actually there's a lot of people go
through life thinking I want to go home
and watch Strictly Come Dancing on
MasterChef and make sure my kids are in
bed by eight o'clock maybe some people
don't do the vision thing ya know I
think you're how to present right and I
think society and folks like me put an
unfair pressure on people to have a
vision yeah right and I think that's
true we're not all Steve Jobs we don't
all have big world-changing visions to
your point I do believe however you can
find a vision right in other words it
doesn't have to be yours it can be
someone else's we found Martin Luther
King we found Mahatma Gandhi we found
Steve Jobs
we found Richard Branson whoever you
Elan musk the visionaries and people go
I loved his vision so organize your
business around that right you don't
have to have a vision but I do believe
you have to find one people find it in
religion you know you follow whatever
you follow right you you become a
follower of so you can say I bear as
yours I believe in that and we're
organizing our our company around
helping to build that world yeah
so I don't believe you have to have one
now do you believe you have to find one
Yeah right
and it doesn't have to always operate at
a macro level it absolutely can operate
at a micro level right it can be the way
you raise your family the way you treat
your friends you raise another point
which is getting in you know when people
get more senior they sort of seemed to
become more risk-averse when I what I my
own findings are mirror that which is
when when people are young in their
careers every new promotion is like the
most incredible thing in the world and
the first bonus and the first client you
win the first big business you land the
first big product you launch it's like
the most amazing thing in the world and
that's thrill keeps you excited to stay
in the career just you just keeps
motivated but after you've had a bunch
of bonuses and written a bunch of
articles and been on TV a bunch it's it
gets it's whatever it's not what drives
the excitement anymore well I still
quite like yes right yeah you might
enjoy it but the thrill yeah it's gone
or at least its subdued yeah right if
you don't get the same nerves as you're
getting wired up to go on TV you know
yeah it becomes part of the process and
when I start to see his executives later
in their careers actually struggle to
find the same inspiration that they
found when they were younger and so they
resort to the things that inspired them
when they were younger I remember the
first million we made so if I make
another million I remember the first big
client so I glandt another big client
they keep trying to repeat what worked
when they were younger that no longer
works when they're senior and they
actually I find senior executives to be
less fulfilled and less inspired by
their work than junior people well that
won't be the case if they come back from
this come for break and they've asked
you lots of cuesta can we thank Simon 40
said so far
and also can we thank and we'll very
much indeed for every
[Applause]
[Music]